.\"
.\" BSD Zero Clause License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Thomas Voss
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 9 2022 $
.Dt TASKWRITE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm taskwrite
.Nd write a properly formatted task to an output stream
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In task.h
.Ft int
.Fo taskwrite
.Fa "FILE *stream"
.Fa "struct task task"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn taskwrite
function writes the contents of
.Fa task
to the output stream
.Fa stream
in the format specified by
.Xr task 5 .
.Pp
For details on the structure of the
.Vt struct task
structure, see the
.Xr taskread 3
manual.
The
.Fn taskwrite
function does not validate the timestamps embedded within
.Fa task .
This means that you could in theory write a task for the 32nd of the 13th month.
The output stream specified by
.Fa stream
is also not
.Dv NULL
checked, so the caller should ensure that a
.Dv NULL
value is not passed, otherwise the function will most likely cause a segmentation fault.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion 0 is returned.
Otherwise, an error constant specified in
.Pa errno.h
is returned.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following code builds a task and writes it to the standard output without performing error
checking.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <time.h>

#include <task.h>

int
main(void)
{
	char *authors[] = { "Thomas Voss", NULL }; /* Must be NULL terminated! */
	time_t tm = time(NULL);
	struct task task = {
		.title = "Write the taskwrite(3) manual page",
		.authors = authors,
		.body = "The taskwrite(3) manual page needs writing.\en"
			"The mandoc documentation will prove useful.\en",
		.start = *gmtime(&tm)
	};
	taskwrite(stdout, task);
	return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.Ed
.Pp
The output after executing the above program is as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
-----------------------------------------------
Title:       Write the taskwrite(3) manual page
Author:      Thomas Voss
Time Frame:  After 00:43 2022-03-09
-----------------------------------------------

The taskwrite(3) manual page needs writing.
The mandoc documentation will prove useful.
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
The
.Vt struct task
passed to the function is of the form
.Dq From XX to YY ,
but the ending timestamp represents a time earlier than the starting timestamp.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr taskread 3 ,
.Xr task 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt thomasvoss@live.com
