.\"
.\" BSD Zero Clause License
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Thomas Voss
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 11 2022 $
.Dt TASK 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm task
.Nd the task file format specification
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The task file format is a format designed for saving tasks, activies, or related events that have set
timeframes involved.
For example, perhaps a university assignment must be completed before a certain deadline, or the
trash needs to be taken out between two timeframes.
.Pp
The format is designed to be extremely simple to use, and relatively easy for machines to parse.
All task files are composed of a mandatory header and an optional body seperated by a newline.
For an example of a complete file, see the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section of the manual.
.Ss FILE HEADER
The file header is a mandatory part of any task file.
It is prefixed and suffixed by a horizontal rule, and contains metadata fields in the form
.Dq Field: Data .
Any amount of whitespace is allowed after the colon, but no whitespace is allow before it or at the
start of the line.
The horizontal rules are nothing more than a sequence of
.Sq \-
characters.
The amount does not matter so long as there is no other character on the same line
.Pq with the exception of the trailing newline .
The format specifies the following metadata fields that can be contained in the header:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
Title
.It
Author
.It
Time Frame
.El
.Pp
Of these fields, the
.Dq Title
and
.Dq Time Frame
are both required while the author field is optional.
Additionally, the
.Dq Author
field may be specified multiple times to specify multiple authors.
The field names are case sensitive, so having the line
.Dq author: Thomas Voss
is a violation of the format, but
.Dq Author: Thomas Voss
is completely valid.
Additionally whitespace in
.Dq author
fields is always collapsed into a single space character
.Pq Sq " " .
This means that the authors
.Sm off
.Do
.Pf Thomas Aq space
.Aq space
Voss
.Dc
.Sm on
and
.Sm off
.Do
.Pf Thomas Aq tab
Voss
.Dc
.Sm on
should be treated as if they are
.Sm off
.Do
.Pf Thomas Aq space
Voss
.Dc .
.Sm on
.Pp
The formats of the data given to the
.Dq Title
and
.Dq Author
fields are completely up to the user and not specified.
The
.Dq Time Frame
field however follows a very strict format.
All time frames must have one of the following formats:
.Pp
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
After HH:MM YYYY\-MM\-DD
.It
Until HH:MM YYYY\-MM\-DD
.It
On HH:MM YYYY\-MM\-DD
.It
From HH:MM YYYY\-MM\-DD to HH:MM YYYY\-MM\-DD
.El
.Pp
In the pattern
.Dq HH:MM ,
.Dq HH
represents a 2 digit hour in the range 00\-23 and
.Dq MM
represents a 2 digit minute in the range 00\-59.
Similarly, in the pattern
.Dq YYYY\-MM\-DD ,
.Dq YYYY
represents a 4 digit year in the range 0000\-9999,
.Dq MM
represents a 2 digit month in the range 01\-12, and
.Dq DD
represents a 2 digit day in the range 01\-31.
It is also required that when the time frame is of the form
.Dq From ... to ...
that the first time frame specified comes chronologicaly before the second specified time frame.
.Ss FILE BODY
The file body has no restrictions.
It is completely optional, but if a task does have a body then there must be a single empty line
between the body and the lower horizontal rule of the header.
If there are multiple empty lines between the header and the body, then all but the first empty line
should be considered a part of the body.
.Sh EXAMPLES
This is an example of a task file containing only a header and no body.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
-------------------------------------
Title:       Study for Linear Algebra
Time Frame:  Before 13:30 2022-03-08
-------------------------------------
.Ed
.Pp
This is an example of a complete task.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
------------------------------------------------------
Title:       Create an OOPP Merge Request
Author:      Thomas Voss
Author:      Andy Zaidman
Time Frame:  From 07:00 2022-02-05 to 21:35 2022-03-09
------------------------------------------------------

Within the time frame I must create a merge request and get it approved by at the
very least, 2 team members. The merge request must also introduce a new endpoint
to the server.
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr taskfree 3 ,
.Xr taskread 3 ,
.Xr taskwrite 3
.Sh HISTORY
In the original edition of the manual
.Pq 9th of March, 2022
the standard did not specify that whitespace had to be squashed in author names, although the libtask
library was already doing so.
This behavior was standardized on the 11th of March, 2022.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt thomasvoss@live.com
